She was a good deal frightened by this very sudden change, but she felt
that there was no time to be lost, as she was shrinking rapidly; so she
set to work at once to eat some of the other bit. Her chin was pressed
so closely against her foot that there was hardly room to open her
mouth; but she did it at last, and managed to swallow a morsel of the
left-hand bit.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Come, my head's free at last!" said Alice in a tone of delight, which
changed into alarm in another moment, when she found that her shoulders
were nowhere to be found: all she could see, when she looked down, was
an immense length of neck, which seemed to rise like a stalk out of a
sea of green leaves that lay far below her.

"What _can_ all that green stuff be?" said Alice. "And where have my
shoulders got to? And oh, my poor hands, how is it I ca'n't see you?"
She was moving them about as she spoke, but no result seemed to follow,
except a little shaking among the distant green leaves.

As there seemed to be no chance of getting her hands up to her head, she
tried to get her head down to them, and was delighted to find that her
neck would bend about easily in any direction, like a serpent. She had
just succeeded in curving it down into a graceful zigzag, and was going
to dive in among the leaves, which she found to be nothing but the tops
of the trees under which she had been wandering, when a sharp hiss made
her draw back in a hurry: a large pigeon had flown into her face, and
was beating her violently with its wings.

"Serpent!" screamed the Pigeon.

"I'm _not_ a serpent!" said Alice indignantly. "Let me alone!"

"Serpent, I say again!" repeated the Pigeon, but in a more subdued tone,
and added with a kind of a sob, "I've tried every way, and nothing seems
to suit them!"

"I haven't the least idea what you're talking about," said Alice.

"I've tried the roots of trees, and I've tried banks, and I've tried
hedges," the Pigeon went on, without attending to her; "but those
serpents! There's no pleasing them!"

Alice was more and more puzzled, but she thought there was no use in
saying anything more till the Pigeon had finished.

"As if it wasn't trouble enough hatching the eggs," said the Pigeon;
"but I must be on the look-out for serpents night and day! Why, I
haven't had a wink of sleep these three weeks!"

"I'm very sorry you've been annoyed," said Alice, who was beginning to
see its meaning.

[Illustration]

"And just as I'd taken the highest tree in the wood," continued the
Pigeon, raising its voice to a shriek, "and just as I was thinking I
should be free of them at last, they must needs come wriggling down from
the sky! Ugh, Serpent!"

"But I'm _not_ a serpent, I tell you!" said Alice. "I'm a---- I'm a
----"

"Well! _What_ are you?" said the Pigeon. "I can see you're trying to
invent something!"

"I--I'm a little girl," said Alice, rather doubtfully, as she remembered
the number of changes she had gone through that day.

"A likely story indeed!" said the Pigeon in a tone of the deepest
contempt. "I've seen a good many little girls in my time, but never
_one_ with such a neck as that! No, no! You're a serpent; and there's no
use denying it. I suppose you'll be telling me next that you never
tasted an egg!"

"I _have_ tasted eggs, certainly," said Alice, who was a very truthful
child; "but little girls eat eggs quite as much as serpents do, you
know."

"I don't believe it," said the Pigeon; "but if they do, why then
they're a kind of serpent, that's all I can say."

This was such a new idea to Alice, that she was quite silent for a
minute or two, which gave the Pigeon the opportunity of adding, "You're
looking for eggs, I know _that_ well enough; and what does it matter to
me whether you're a little girl or a serpent?"

"It matters a good deal to _me_," said Alice hastily; "but I'm not
looking for eggs, as it happens; and if I was, I shouldn't want _yours_:
I don't like them raw."

"Well, be off, then!" said the Pigeon in a sulky tone, as it settled
down again into its nest. Alice crouched down among the trees as well as
she could, for her neck kept getting entangled among the branches, and
every now and then she had to stop and untwist it. After a while she
remembered that she still held the pieces of mushroom in her hands, and
she set to work very carefully, nibbling first at one and then at the
other, and growing sometimes taller and sometimes shorter, until she had
succeeded in bringing herself down to her usual height.

It was so long since she had been anything near the right size, that it
felt quite strange at first; but she got used to it in a few minutes,
and began talking to herself, as usual. "Come, there's half my plan done
now! How puzzling all these changes are! I'm never sure what I'm going
to be, from one minute to another! However, I've got back to my right
size: the next thing is, to get into that beautiful garden--how _is_
that to be done, I wonder?" As she said this, she came suddenly upon an
open place, with a little house in it about four feet high. "Whoever
lives there," thought Alice, "it'll never do to come upon them _this_
size: why, I should frighten them out of their wits!" So she began
nibbling at the right-hand bit again, and did not venture to go near the
house till she had brought herself down to nine inches high.




CHAPTER VI


[Sidenote: _Pig and Pepper_]

FOR a minute or two she stood looking at the house, and
wondering what to do next, when suddenly a footman in livery came
running out of the wood--(she considered him to be a footman because he
was in livery: otherwise, judging by his face only, she would have
called him a fish)--and rapped loudly at the door with his knuckles. It
was opened by another footman in livery, with a round face and large
eyes like a frog; and both footmen, Alice noticed, had powdered hair
that curled all over their heads. She felt very curious to know what it
was all about, and crept a little way out of the wood to listen.

The Fish-Footman began by producing from under his arm a great letter,
nearly as large as himself, and this he handed over to the other,
saying, in a solemn tone, "For the Duchess. An invitation from the
Queen to play croquet." The Frog-Footman repeated, in the same solemn
tone, only changing the order of the words a little, "From the Queen. An
invitation for the Duchess to play croquet."

Then they both bowed low, and their curls got entangled together.

Alice laughed so much at this, that she had to run back into the wood
for fear of their hearing her; and, when she next peeped out, the
Fish-Footman was gone, and the other was sitting on the ground near the
door, staring stupidly up into the sky.

Alice went timidly up to the door and knocked.

"There's no use in knocking," said the Footman, "and that for two
reasons. First, because I'm on the same side of the door as you are;
secondly, because they're making such a noise inside, no one could
possibly hear you." And certainly there was a most extraordinary noise
going on within--a constant howling and sneezing, and every now and then
a great crash, as if a dish or kettle had been broken to pieces.

"Please, then," said Alice, "how am I to get in?"

"There might be some sense in your knocking," the Footman went on
without attending to her, "if we had the door between us. For instance,
if you were _inside_, you might knock, and I could let you out, you
know." He was looking up into the sky all the time he was speaking, and
this Alice thought decidedly uncivil. "But perhaps he can't help it,"
she said to herself: "his eyes are so _very_ nearly at the top of his
head. But at any rate he might answer questions. How am I to get in?"
she repeated aloud.

"I shall sit here," the Footman remarked, "till to-morrow----"

At this moment the door of the house opened, and a large plate came
skimming out, straight at the Footman's head: it just grazed his nose,
and broke to pieces against one of the trees behind him.

"----or next day, maybe," the Footman continued in the same tone,
exactly as if nothing had happened.

"How am I to get in?" asked Alice again in a louder tone.

"_Are_ you to get in at all?" said the Footman. "That's the first
question, you know."

[Illustration]

It was, no doubt: only Alice did not like to be told so. "It's really
dreadful," she muttered to herself, "the way all the creatures argue.
It's enough to drive one crazy!"

The Footman seemed to consider this a good opportunity for repeating his
remark, with variations. "I shall sit here," he said, "on and off, for
days and days."

"But what am _I_ to do?" said Alice.

"Anything you like," said the Footman, and began whistling.

"Oh, there's no use in talking to him," said Alice desperately: "he's
perfectly idiotic!" And she opened the door and went in.

The door led right into a large kitchen, which was full of smoke from
one end to the other: the Duchess was sitting on a three-legged stool in
the middle, nursing a baby, the cook was leaning over the fire, stirring
a large cauldron which seemed to be full of soup.

"There's certainly too much pepper in that soup!" Alice said to herself,
as well as she could for sneezing.

There was certainly too much of it in the air. Even the Duchess sneezed
occasionally; and the baby was sneezing and howling alternately without
a moment's pause. The only things in the kitchen that did not sneeze,
were the cook, and a large cat which was sitting on the hearth and
grinning from ear to ear.

"Please would you tell me," said Alice a little timidly, for she was not
quite sure whether it was good manners for her to speak first, "why your
cat grins like that?"

"It's a Cheshire cat," said the Duchess, "and that's why. Pig!"

She said the last word with such sudden violence that Alice quite
jumped; but she saw in another moment that it was addressed to the baby,
and not to her, so she took courage, and went on again:

"I didn't know that Cheshire cats always grinned; in fact, I didn't know
that cats _could_ grin."

"They all can," said the Duchess; "and most of 'em do."

"I don't know of any that do," Alice said very politely, feeling quite
pleased to have got into a conversation.

"You don't know much," said the Duchess; "and that's a fact."

Alice did not at all like the tone of this remark, and thought it would
be as well to introduce some other subject of conversation. While she
was trying to fix on one, the cook took the cauldron of soup off the
fire, and at once set to work throwing everything within her reach at
the Duchess and the baby--the fire-irons came first; then followed a
shower of saucepans, plates, and dishes. The Duchess took no notice of
them even when they hit her; and the baby was howling so much already,
that it was quite impossible to say whether the blows hurt it or not.

"Oh, _please_ mind what you're doing!" cried Alice, jumping up and down
in an agony of terror. "Oh, there goes his _precious_ nose"; as an
unusually large saucepan flew close by it, and very nearly carried it
off.

"If everybody minded their own business," the Duchess said in a hoarse
growl, "the world would go round a deal faster than it does."
